# SimplePlatformer2d
#### Video Demo:  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=WS_8eRwf43c
#### Description:
This project is a simple 2d platformer built in the love engine. it uses a library called windfeild to make the physics simpler. It uses a Tiled map to generate the colliders the maps are exported as lua files with the naming convention is level#.lua starting at level1.lua. you need to change the numofmaps variable to make the other levels show up in the menu. The menu will show the level page once the first level is completed. It also uses Simple Tiled Implementation for the map and hump for the camera. There are death zones, platform tops, bottoms, and sides. It is written fully in lua and is licensed under the MIT license. There are two levels in the current version of the game. To run, download all of the files and open main.lua in the love2d game engine. You can edit the .tmx files with Tiled and export them as lua files. The game currently has programmer graphics but tiled can be used to easily add better graphics. During this project I learned alot about versioning control with git, lua, how games work on the backend and how important documentation is to being able to figure out what you did previously. overall i think this project allowed me to really learn well with a fun project that I showed to my friends. I made the game over a few weeks and learned alot about running a project. I do not like lua that much as a language but it allowed me to learn about scripting languages, that experience I can use in other engines like godot or UE5. The game autosaves your progress in a file called savefile in the place where love.filesystem puts files. The file saves the number of levels completed in a single byte so the max number of levels using this system is 9. This game would be a good platform for other people to work on and make their own levels and graphics. It could also be used as a starting point for much more complex games. 
#### Note: 
in the code the left and right of the platforms are treated as their inverse as walls. The camera is currently just attached to the Y coordinate of the player so no left or right motion of the camera is possible in this version. The game's gravity constant and speed constants are currently hard coded. The speed of the game which can affect how hard the game is can affect the difficulty of the game. The bottom of the screen is also hard coded but that value is easier to change than the others. I really enjoyed coding this game. If you find bugs, feel free to email me at the email in the MIT license.